Content changes to the DocCDocumentation Catalog (#742)
apple/swift-docc: Sources/docc/DocCDocumentation.docc/other-formatting-options.md

# Other Formatting Options

Improve the presentation and structure of your content by incorporating special page elements.

## Overview

DocC offers support for various types of elements such as tables, notes, asides, and special characters.

### Add Tables of Data

> To create a table, start a new paragraph and use dashes (`-`) to define 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a table, start a new paragraph and use hyphens (`-`) to define 
```

Author: Resolved https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/2e64258bcfa7eff3e8272bf1c2075245b5f4d9c5

columns, and pipes (`|`) as column separators. Construction of a table requires 
at least three rows: 

> * A row that contains the column names.

Reviewer: Rewrite for clarity; for example:

The table's header row, which consists of pipes to separate the columns, and text for the headings of each column.

Or something to that effect.

Author: Rewritten in https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/0d0651d7a625986ec00e5b29ecdeae51053d2109

> * A row with cells that contain only dashes (`-`); three or more for each 

Reviewer: This text isn't particularly clear. Prefer something like:

A row that consists of pipes and hyphens, used to separate the table header row from the rows of cell contents below.

Author: Changed in https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/0d0651d7a625986ec00e5b29ecdeae51053d2109

column.

> * One or more rows of content.

Reviewer: I would not recommend using a table for a single row of content. A table should have at least two rows of content, and a minimum of two columns.

```markdown
| Sloth speed  | Description                           |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------- | 
| `slow`       | Moves slightly faster than a snail.   |
| `medium`     | Moves at an average speed.            |
| `fast`       | Moves faster than a hare.             |
| `supersonic` | Moves faster than the speed of sound. |
```
There's no need to impose a column width. A column determines its width 

> using the contents of its widest cell. You can also omit the leading 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
based on the contents of that column's widest cell. You can also omit the leading 
```

Author: Resolved https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/2e64258bcfa7eff3e8272bf1c2075245b5f4d9c5

> and trailing pipes.

Reviewer: Should we also add that they can omit any additional spaces used to "align" the contents of a table within the cell?

Author: Added in https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/0d0651d7a625986ec00e5b29ecdeae51053d2109

```markdown
Sloth speed | Description
--- | ---
`slow` | Moves slightly faster than a snail.
`medium` | Moves at an average speed.
`fast` | Moves faster than a hare.
`supersonic` | Moves faster than the speed of sound.
```

Both examples result in the same output:

| Sloth speed | Description |
| ---: | :--- |
| `slow` | Moves slightly faster than a snail. |
| `medium` | Moves at an average speed. |
| `fast` | Moves faster than a hare. |
| `supersonic` | Moves faster than the speed of sound. |

> > Note: Table cells don't support multiple paragraphs, lists, or code 

Reviewer: I think this needs to be an Important aside. The text should say something like:

You can only place a single line of text within a table cell. For example, you can't have multiple paragraphs, lists, or images within a table cell.

Author: Resolved https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/2e64258bcfa7eff3e8272bf1c2075245b5f4d9c5

include links to other content, including symbols. 

### Add Notes and Other Asides

There may be circumstances when you want to get the reader's attention to 
provide additional advice, or to warn them about common errors or requisite 
configuration. For those situations, use an aside. 

DocC supports the following types of asides:

| Type | Usage |
| ----- | ------ |
| Note | General information that applies to some users. |
| Important | Important information, such as a requirement. |
| Warning | Critical information, like potential data loss or an irrecoverable state. |
| Tip | Helpful information, such as shortcuts, suggestions, or hints. |
| Experiment | Instructional information to reinforce a learning objective, or to encourage developers to try out different parts of your framework. |

To create an aside, begin a new line with a greater-than symbol (`>`), add a space, 
the type of the aside, a colon (`:`), and the content of the aside.

```markdown
> Tip: Sloths require sustenance to perform activities.
```

For the example above, DocC renders the following aside:

> Tip: Sloths require sustenance to perform activities.

> The text of an aside can use the same style attributes as other text, and 

Reviewer: I think it's important to note that an aside can only contain a single line of text (meaning, a single paragraph). Asides don't provide support for multiple paragraphs, and you can't include lists, code blocks, or images within an aside.

Author: Added in https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/0d0651d7a625986ec00e5b29ecdeae51053d2109

include links to other content, including symbols.

### Include Special Characters in Text

To escape one or more special characters, precede each with a backslash 
(`\`). 

For example, to display an asterisk (`*`) at the beginning of a line and prevent 
DocC from converting it into a bulleted list item, place a backslash immediately before it.

```
\* Not a bulleted list item.
```

If you use single (`*`) or double (`**`) asterisks to apply italic or bold 
styling, respectively, you can escape any asterisks that the text contains so 
DocC doesn't prematurely terminate the styling. 

```
*Sloths require sustenance\* to perform activities.*

**Sloths require sustenance\*\* to perform activities.**
```

> 

Reviewer: Does DocC provide support for hex or unicode character translation? If so, it might be worth including that information here as well, along with examples. For example, can someone use `&copy;` to display the copyright symbol (©)?

Author: Yes. I added this info here https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/cc113da97aa4227287b71ab6d575a6184ea4bd75.

> <!-- Copyright (c) 2023 Apple Inc and the Swift Project authors. All Rights Reserved. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- Copyright (c) 2023 Apple Inc and the Swift Project authors. All rights reserved. -->
```

the type of the aside, a colon (`:`), and the content of the aside.

```markdown
> Tip: Sloths require sustenance to perform activities.
```

For the example above, DocC renders the following aside:

> Tip: Sloths require sustenance to perform activities.

The text of an aside can use the same style attributes as other text, and 
include links to other content, including symbols.

### Include Special Characters in Text

To escape one or more special characters, precede each with a backslash 
(`\`). 

For example, to display an asterisk (`*`) at the beginning of a line and prevent 
DocC from converting it into a bulleted list item, place a backslash immediately before it.

```
\* Not a bulleted list item.
```

If you use single (`*`) or double (`**`) asterisks to apply italic or bold 
styling, respectively, you can escape any asterisks that the text contains so 
DocC doesn't prematurely terminate the styling. 

```
*Sloths require sustenance\* to perform activities.*

**Sloths require sustenance\*\* to perform activities.**
```

<!-- Copyright (c) 2023 Apple Inc and the Swift Project authors. All Rights Reserved. -->

> 

Reviewer 2: Nit: Remove the extra 2 empty lines.

Author: Resolved in https://github.com/apple/swift-docc/pull/742/commits/f8036c9750264bdf19d1292cb1a32bfa270bb7a2
